slides/README.md, before:

# 1. Goal and target group
## Audience
Teachers and students, both technical enough.
## Goal
Teach them about what Nix is as a package manager.
# 2. Topic and structure
## Topic
Nix
## Structure
- hook or "ice breaker" anything that doesn't make the start awful, something sort of - does audience know [anything related to what nix aims to solve] 5 min
- Introduction 10 min
	- what is Nix (package manager)?
	- why does Nix exist?
	- real world use cases of Nix
- Nix vs. Docker 10 min
	- (many students/teachers already know what Docker is)
	- contrast how Nix is similar to Docker
	- contrast how Nix is different from Docker
	- when Nix is better use case than Docker
	- when Docker is better use case than Nix
- How to use Nix 45 min
	- introduce Nix flakes - handout what matters when editing flakes
	- exercise section
		- introduce different projects
		- start exercise section
		- questions/assistance per project owner
- Impressions so far? 5 min
	- look back to your past projects from university, where would you utilize Nix?
	- would you consider utilizing Nix in future projects?
- Introduce NixOS as a bigger picture 5 min
- End presentation 10 min
	- further questions/discussion
# 3. Methods and materials
## Materials
Prepare handouts of something, like how to configure the flake.
# 4. Actively involve participants
## Exercises
Nedas will work on Python exercises
Michal will work on Rust/Go exericses
Kornel will work on TS exercises
# 5. Planning time management
## Planning
In total we have 90 minutes for a workshop.
We should buffer for perhaps 2-5 minutes for spontaneous questions from the audience, in between sections.
# 6. Prepare technology and room for the workshop
## GitHub Repository
We will prepare a github repository that students/teachers can clone and configure their Nix flake based on the project they want to run (i.e. Python, Rust, etc)
# 7. Plan for feedback and evaluation
Can add section of time for discussion/questions.
Could also just follow-up with documentation, then end presentation with discussion/questions.
# 8. Follow-up and documentation
They will be able to keep the GitHub repository, and all the material on Nix we have collected. As well as the handouts we provided them with.

Commit message:

docs(slides): add note to change strucutre based on given time for the workshop

slides/README.md, after:

# 1. Goal and target group
## Audience
Teachers and students, both technical enough.
## Goal
Teach them about what Nix is as a package manager.
# 2. Topic and structure
## Topic
Nix
## Structure (total time we have is 45 minutes, adjust the structure!)
- hook or "ice breaker" anything that doesn't make the start awful, something sort of - does audience know [anything related to what nix aims to solve] 5 min
- Introduction 10 min
	- what is Nix (package manager)?
	- why does Nix exist?
	- real world use cases of Nix
- Nix vs. Docker 10 min
	- (many students/teachers already know what Docker is)
	- contrast how Nix is similar to Docker
	- contrast how Nix is different from Docker
	- when Nix is better use case than Docker
	- when Docker is better use case than Nix
- How to use Nix 45 min
	- introduce Nix flakes - handout what matters when editing flakes
	- exercise section
		- introduce different projects
		- start exercise section
		- questions/assistance per project owner
- Impressions so far? 5 min
	- look back to your past projects from university, where would you utilize Nix?
	- would you consider utilizing Nix in future projects?
- Introduce NixOS as a bigger picture 5 min
- End presentation 10 min
	- further questions/discussion
# 3. Methods and materials
## Materials
Prepare handouts of something, like how to configure the flake.
# 4. Actively involve participants
## Exercises
Nedas will work on Python exercises
Michal will work on Rust/Go exericses
Kornel will work on TS exercises
# 5. Planning time management
## Planning
In total we have 45 minutes for a workshop (they mentioned 2 workshops = 90 minutes)
We should buffer for perhaps 2-5 minutes for spontaneous questions from the audience, in between sections.
# 6. Prepare technology and room for the workshop
## GitHub Repository
We will prepare a github repository that students/teachers can clone and configure their Nix flake based on the project they want to run (i.e. Python, Rust, etc)
# 7. Plan for feedback and evaluation
Can add section of time for discussion/questions.
Could also just follow-up with documentation, then end presentation with discussion/questions.
# 8. Follow-up and documentation
They will be able to keep the GitHub repository, and all the material on Nix we have collected. As well as the handouts we provided them with.
